### IBD
* IBD-related dysbiosis is specifically associated with a comprehensive decrease in the quantity and diversity of Firmicutes and an increase in Proteobacteria.
* The decrease in the numbers of Firmicutes is noteworthy since they produce essential short-chain fatty acids, such as acetic and butyric acids, that are known to exhibit anti-inflammatory properties.
* A common feature of the microbial dysbiosis among IBD patients, especially in Crohn’s disease, is the decreased abundance of Firmicutes bacteria belonging to two families that are important functional members of the human gut microbiota—Ruminococcaceae and Lachnospiraceae—to which most butyrate-producing bacteria in the human gut belong.
* Thus, depletion of these bacterial families in IBD is supposedly correlated to the detected disturbances, such as a lower butyrate-producing capacity of the IBD microbiota. Butyrate has a significant potential in IBD therapy because it serves as the colonocytes key energy source, enhances the epithelial barrier integrity, and inhibits inflammation. A probiotics treatment, including consumption of butyrate-producing bacteria to increase in situ butyrate production, may restore gut homeostasis.
### Diarrhea
* At present, the pathogens causing diarrhea are believed to be Escherichia coli, Shigella, Salmonella, Campylobacter, Clostridium difficile, and Aeromonas.
* Probiotics containing nonpathogenic live bacteria preparations, such as Lactobacillus, Yeast, Bifidobacterium, Enterococcus, and Bacillus, have been demonstrated to treat pathogens-caused diarrhea by preserving or amending the balance of gut microbiota.
* The mechanisms of the beneficial effect are supposedly related to the inhibitory effect on the colonization of pathogenic bacteria by competing for nutrients and producing antibacterial compounds.
### Constipation
* Taxonomic profiling of intestinal microbiota in constipated adults showed a higher abundance of Bacteroides and other pathogenic microorganisms than in healthy volunteers.151 The increased richness and diversity of the gut microbiomes result in slow colonic transit. In addition, intestinal microbiota in constipated adults have genes involved in pathways that lead to methane, hydrogen, and glycerol production, which can explain the symptoms seen in patients with constipation.
* Microbial interventions including probiotics, prebiotics, and synbiotics, which bring about compositional and functional changes of the gut microbiota, have frequently shown beneficial effects on functional constipation that are in favor of the concept of the significant role of gut microbiota in functional constipation.
* This concept is supported also by the reports that many risk factors of functional constipation, including age, diet, obesity, and stress, have a considerable effect on the gut microbiota.
### Mental and Neurodegenerative Disorders
* Therapeutic interventions including the administration of pre- and probiotics (psychobiotics) to manage mental disorders and/or their symptoms have been undertaken.174,175 These inventions have included probiotic combinations of lactobacilli and Bifidobacteria, which has resulted in a significant drop in psychological distress,176 enhanced cognition and communication among patients with Alzheimer’s disease177 and autism spectrum disorders,178 and recovering symptoms among patients with Parkinson’s disease.
* A disruption of circadian rhythms is associated with various diseases, including neurodegenerative diseases, sleep, and psychiatric disorders.181,182 Recent studies have reported that gut microbiota are able to control or be controlled by the circadian clock.
* Thus, the levels of butyrate and propionate show obvious daily oscillations. Moreover, these oscillations are lost under high-fat diets. [186](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4433408/)
